so I'm Kecia and I work on the product
marketing side of swagger and swagger
hub and today we'll just be diving into
headfirst on like what really is the
open API specification so we're gonna be
starting off with understanding giving a
quick overview of the open API
specification like what is and
specifically open a POS 3.0 we'll be
talking more about what's new in OS
Suite 3.0 and we did a webinar about
last month which meant more into details
and like what were the new features this
is just gonna be a quick overview of the
new field of just the highlights of the
new features and then finally of course
we are gonna be going in and doing a
live demo on swagger hub like when
you're actually we're gonna be taking an
idea of what any case suppose me and
then designing it from scratch using OS
3.0 and of course you'll always will
always have time for Q&A there we go so
so really let's look at listen if you
have to think about why the open API
specification egg says we need to start
thinking more than API a first so an API
is just a set of protocols that allows
different applications or logical units
to communicate right you know so think
of it as a purifying channel of data
exchange that gets exchanged between
systems the receiving unit is usually a
client which then puts out a request and
then of course there's gonna be a
response which comes in from the server
when the client hits the server with the
specific request know an API
traditionally it's been is sort of like
a black box at least before before an
interface was defined using swagger or
the opening pacification right it was
just like a set of protocols that was
also built by a way that actually goes
through a life cycle of different
personas so you have the architect to go
about from a top-level overview
understanding how the API supposed to
behave and function you'll have the
developers and the testers were making
sure that the API works works correctly
works as intended and they're also
writing business logic against different
resources and of course you have the
technical writers who actually have to
document this API to make sure that your
end the end consumers of this API know
what this API does now however in
traditional sense when when people
actually approach the API development
without using a restful interface or
like a design per se there are some
major problems that they encounter the
first one of course is that maintaining
documentation tests and implementation
was hard right because you know all
because aps are just like any other
product they do go to update they go
they do go to an agile iteration of new
features new updates new bug fixes and
then you have all because we have such a
diverse set of teams or working on these
API so maintaining all of their
different units together was incredibly
hard implement and because there was no
real defined design on how the API
should look and feel and behave
implementation was was sort of all over
the place and always came at the cost of
the end-users experience so you know
because there was such a need to like
push the API out really quickly and
because there was no plan approach like
actually building an API the end user
the end consumer of the API software and
finally of course communication between
different services built and different
program programming languages was not
always easy right so for example if you
have a service that's built in Ruby and
I have a service that's built in nodejs
we shouldn't be imposing restrictions on
each other saying you know I can only
consume your service if I say get a ruby
SDK from you or like oh so you know that
sdk from you right it has to be seamless
there has to be a common framework and
that really is what happened in 2010
when a company called word nick decided
to solve this was actually creating a
restful interface sort of like the
equivalent of soap in soap called wisdom
and what this interface does is it not
just allows it not doesn't just act as a
common framework for all of these
different teams working together to like
build EAP iso acting like say a template
or a blueprint for your api but also it
sort of acts as an interface of sorts
for your api so think like sort of like
um not a GUI per se but really an
interface not it doesn't your api is no
longer a black box there's actually a
restful interface that allows your
clients to actually interact with the
data or the service you want to expose
and this was this is what this is this
is the swagger specification this
restful interface now now it's called
the open API specification it was
formerly called swagger specification
and adalah and this is a human and
machine readable API interface purely
for rest rest based services that allows
humans to implement API code that allows
consumers of the API to read and
generate API documentation as well as
test cases against wares API resources
and also because it's both human and
machine readable it acts as an interface
of sorts not just for internal systems
but also for your teams to work together
so the open API specification is now the
industry standard in how restful epa's
are supposed to be defined and so it's
governed by the open API initiative and
this is an open technical at this is a
collaborative project under the Linux
Foundation and you have all of these
different companies working together as
well as like the open source community
in general and all of them are working
together to like standardize the way
restful api sort built and designed so
while the open api initiative supports
the specification you know and there's
always this question what is swagger now
well swagger is and always be the set of
tools that's that's built around the
implementation of the open API
specification so you have the swagger
editor swagger UI the swagger coach and
we have swagger core and we have a bunch
of the for another open source project
if you can find a bit under the swagger
github repository and all of them are
essentially helping accelerate the
implementation of the opening PS
specifications so swagger Z are the set
of tools that are built around the
implementation of the open API
specification so really quickly
high-level you know what's new is we
have some some great features you know
there's improve reusability parameter
changes there's improved examples as
well as support for content negotiation
and this is exactly what we will be
covering in today's demo there are some
additional advanced features like
support for describing callbacks there's
also a lot of questions on security we
will not be covering this in today's
demo and also of course links between
different operations you will not be
covering all these three sections in
today's demo but we do have plans like
go go into more detail in
the upcoming webinars so I just want to
quickly walk through some of the
specification restructures and so this
is how the open api 2.0 was right so
this is swagger 2.0 you had it if you
just look at it from a high level in
terms of like the structure there was a
lot of complexity to it right these
there was now there's like structural
changes in a bit to simplify the way you
visualize how the open API spec defines
an API the root level object objects
such as definitions have been modified
to be more and kept encapsulate you know
bigger sections and the whole purpose of
this restructure is to address the
inconsistencies and behavior of root
level definitions it also extends the
opportunities so reuse different
reusable syntax across multiple
operations yeah so there's also the
addition of servers as well to the root
level identity and this replaces the
host and base paths with 3.0 you can
have multiple servers as well for
different environments and we will show
you all of these in the demo of course
we have now we have the parameters as
well so apart from like the regular
query and path parameters which have
been carry forward which have carried
forward from swagger to point out open
API spec 3.0 we also have the header
parameter we also have cookies as well
so open API lets you define headers as
in like header parameters and also
cookie headers multiple cookie
parameters can be sent in the same
header and this they can be suffered by
semicolon in space and also instead of a
big changes we'd there's no longer the
body parameter from swagger to finals so
when you're defining a post operation
you don't have you don't do it you don't
use a body of the body parameter it's
been replaced with the request body and
request body also allows you to send
form data and finally of course these
parameters are reusable and they can be
specified as reusable components under
on the component section and finally of
course in this demo we will be covering
content negotiation so you know the from
swagger to final consumes and produces
have been removed thus there was like
basic content negotiation which was
supporting 2.0 but OAS repoint know
takes it a step further so you can
define different media types in your
various schemas and you can specify what
goes into these different media types so
there's also better file upload support
so things like defining different media
types and files uploading an array of
files as present in OS 3.0 but this was
not present in 2.0
there's also you can also specify a
range and responses so standard HTTP
codes from 200 to 500 can be specified
missile range so it's time for the demo
and the way I'd like to structure this
demo is really taking a hypothetical
scenario so let's take for example that
you know we're part of the smart bear
company and we want to design an API
that allows users to obtain information
about the employees within the company
or also post information about a new
employee into the company's database
right so think of this as an HR API our
team you know because swagger hub
because we won't we're gonna be
showcasing some of our collaborative
features you have the API designer the
API documentation team and you also have
any player development team so this is
our team our objective is to build this
HR API so from a planning perspective
let's assume that we have one resource
called the employee resource and we want
to specifically show one is of course
define a get operation under this under
this resource that allows users to one
is of course get is get the information
of all the employees within this company
as an array you know I knew kids but you
can specify the page limit as well as
the information limit using some of the
query parameters you can also get
information about a specific employee
within from the company's HR database so
here we're going to be showing a path
parameter to do so and finally of course
you can post information about a new
employee and so we will be showing you
how to create a post post operation
using
response body object in the rig we're
gonna be doing this is using swagger hub
so swagger hub is the API design and
documentation platform
let's build four teams to drive
consistency and discipline across API
development workflow so feet so we have
specific proposition of features like
you know allowing teams to standardize
the API design across there across there
across multiple teams centralized
centralized collaboration on a secure
cloud platform and finally order
generation and hosting of interactive
API documentation so let's get started
so this here is swagger hub so I'm right
now in my in the spider hub website or
the app I've logged in so you can see my
login information right over here and
what I'm gonna be doing over here is if
you can note if you see over my screen
there's like the left panel is the my
hat hey sorry folks I see that we're
seeing some people saying that they
can't see ketchup screen and we're gonna
work to resolve this quickly hey folks I
hope everyone can now see my screen so
yeah so sorry about that
so this here is the swagger hub
interface so if you'll notice on the
left hand side this is the left
navigation panel and this is where you
can quickly access some of the EPS which
you've worked on so for example there's
the my hub section where you can go in
and look at all of the EPS which either
you've created so you can see all of
these ApS that you've created or API is
which you've collaborated on right so um
so for example here occasion I need to
this is an API which I created but
there's also for example EPS which I've
collaborated on so there's like the book
API
there's the inventory EP all of these
ApS which I've collaborated on you can
also search through all of the public
API is available on swagger hub so this
over here for example this is you can
they're their swagger hub allows you to
host and allow make public ApS
discoverable by not just your teams or
your partners but also to the rest of
the world if needed and so you can
search the public ApS available so we
have the uber API we have Instagram so
a bunch of public API is available in
Stockholm and finally of course you have
the ability to define organizations
within swagger hub so for example I have
the smart bird software organization
which I'm the owner of and you can see
all the EPS with smart bird software's
builds in the past so these are the API
definitions which you've created and you
can see and you can discover all of
these API is really quickly for the
organizations which you belong to so in
our case again so let's get back to what
we wanted to do is we wanted to build a
new HR API in open API specification 3.0
so let's do that real quickly so let's
go to my let's click on the plus symbol
right over here
and let's click on create a new API so
we're gonna be starting with open API
spec 3.0 and we will be starting with a
blank template so let's give this API a
name so I'm gonna call this the HR API
OS 3.0 just give a quick name version
number of 1.0.0 I'm gonna give this API
name a title so I'm gonna call this the
smart bear HR API and then I'm gonna
give this on a quick description here
and I'll modify this once we go into the
editor within swagger hub you have the
ability to define privacy or visibility
for an API so for example if you're
creating an API firm for just
consumption within your organization's
like an internal API then you can set
the visibility the private you also have
the ability to create a public API for
like consumption from the rest of the
world so we always recommend that if
you're starting an API from scratch even
if you want to eventually transition to
a public model like start make sure that
it's in pry your visibility set to
private just because you don't want an
API which is unstable to be accessed by
the rest of the world so in this case
specifically I'm gonna send this to
public so that you know while I'm
working on this you anyone any of our
viewers can come in and check us out I'm
gonna send this to off the autumn walk
the autumn acting features on a road map
for open API spec 3.0 so we're going to
send this to off for now and finally of
course you can define the owner
for this API so by default it's set to
smart bar software you can change the
owner to your personal account as well
I'm gonna keep this set to my
organization so now we are on the
swagger hub editor where you can
actually now go go in and start defining
and building your your restful interface
for the HR API so let's start by again
so one of the things which I always like
to do before I start by defining my API
is like let's just lay out the metadata
and some of the most important features
for information for any API it's like
apart from like the basic information
like the version number and like the
overall high-level description the also
it's good practice and define the Terms
of Service as well as the support
contact and the license information for
the API so let's just do that right over
here so I'm going to define a better
description just information of new
employees right so this is just a
high-level description on what we want
this API to do let's give this the Terms
of Service and in this case I'm just
gonna go ahead and put down the
smartbear.com use
and then from here I'm gonna define the
contact information so name here is
gonna be me sure I can define a URL as
well as if I have a pot if I have a
website I can define that here I'm just
going to define smartbear.com as the
website name and finally of course I can
put specify an email as well and here
I'm gonna set my smart bear email
account and you notice that as I'm
typing it's getting automatically
visualized on the right so you can see
that all of the information I just put
in has been visualized my slider hub
automatically and every time saying I
put in a deaf and I put in an object or
like any other syntax which is not
compliant with the open API standards it
gives me an error with also like
feedback on how to resolve it I'm also
gonna put in some license information so
this is just smart bear license and URL
in this case I'm just gonna put in smart
bear these URLs don't exist license calm
so yeah so this is just like some basic
groundwork before you go go ahead and
define your API further so one of the
big features in the open API spec 3.0 is
the ability to actually define multiple
servers right up so it's 2.0 you had the
ability you can only set like one host
and base path or one server for your API
in 3.0 you actually have the ability to
set multiple servers so say for example
you have the API definition that exists
in different environments you can
actually actually define this as well
so let's actually do that and service
goes into the root
consistent to find this sort of I can
just use food calm for now and
description this is the dev server for
the API and same thing I'm going to
define another server
you go safe so we're defining the
opening Claire specification in the ammo
and yanil is very particular about
indentation so one of the
recommendations is always make sure that
the indentation is correct and again do
the open API standard we've recommend
that Yama will be the way in which you
define an API just because it's more
human readable than JSON so now let's go
ahead and start defining our first
resource which is the employees resource
and again if you remember recall our
objective objective is to allow users to
get information about existing employees
within the company's HR database so
let's go ahead and do that so I'm gonna
define my employees resource right and
under this I'm letting defining my first
endpoint sorry for my first method which
is the get method let's give a
description for this does get matter the
more information you can give about the
API the better because that's the whole
purpose of the open API specification is
apart from the Russell interface it's
also making sure that it's also allowing
your consumers to get rich information
about how to consume your API HR
database and and if you recall one of
our we also want to make sure that we
have the right parameters so let's
define two query parameters one which
I'm which allows your end consumer to
define how many employees they want
returned and then the second one which
allows users to define how many pages
they want this information so we were
chartered so let's define parameters I'm
gonna give my first time at a name it's
gonna call this body limit this is gonna
be a query parameter so I'm going to
define this as a quake it this is
defined with the in object it's again
give it as many descriptions as possible
so
and then finally one of the big
differences as well when you're defining
api's from 2.0 to 3.0 is the usage of
the schema object so there's a common
and you'll see this pattern as we as we
design this API further you'll see the
schema object being referenced a lot so
we're gonna which essentially allows you
to define what specifically like are
this specific parameter is so here I'll
show you exactly what I mean so under
the schema object you will be defining
things like what type of parameter it is
you also define say things like the
minimum so let's say the minimum here is
gonna be 10 the maximum we want maximum
employees we want return but with any
specific API call those 20 and we can
also define an example so let's say
example is 15 right so this is and again
we're getting the an error right now
because we haven't defined our responses
yet so we're gonna find our first query
parameter which is the body limit Cripe
parameter and which defines how many
employees you want returned let's define
our second parameter and I'm just gonna
copy paste this real quick and let's
call this page limit and here we want to
say the pages
employee whoops right and let's just say
over here that the maximum pages we want
return at any given point is five the
minimum is one and an example of this is
to write so we've defined to us our two
parameters so we've defined two Kray
parameters so now let's go ahead and
start defining our responses so in this
specific response I want to define a 200
response and in this 200 response
I wanna in my response on body which is
going to be an array of employees I want
to give the ID if the employee and the
employee title so let's go ahead and
define our responses and again this the
response should be in the same level as
the parameters so make sure you're on
the same level there and when the spider
how about it so you can actually see
which lioness with the lines over here
so hopefully you guys can see my screen
responses right so let's define our 200
response and this is again standard HTTP
error codes or status codes description
and now let's define what are the odd
objects you the array of objects you've
got you're going to get returned so this
is where the content negotiation part of
the open EPS that comes in and I'll show
you what I mean so you can actually
instead of defining directly the body of
the responses you actually define start
with the content so the type of media
like the type of content you're going to
be receiving so in our case let's say we
want to define this in JSON right so
application JSON
and under application JSON again we're
gonna be calling the schema and if you
recall the schema schema what the schema
does is it defines it defines the
content little more like so we're gonna
called say this is an array and the
items you're gonna be getting out of the
array and again if you're defining an
item in a way you have to follow that up
with the items involved in the area so
let's define all the properties under
this and I'll describe everything which
I'm doing again just so that we can can
be sure from this so just to recap what
I'm doing right now I'm defining the
successful response which is a 200
response and I'm defining that the
response is gonna give back and a JSON
array and in this JSON array I want to
define I want to say that you're on a
successful call consumers are going to
be getting the ID of the employee in the
name of the employee and the title of
the employee so let's define that so
this is the first in information one
second
so yeah so we're defining the ID which
is an integer let's give an example of
this which is 4 right so I'm defining
again my first endpoint and my first
response object which is the ID and
let's go in and define our second
employee name this is going to be a
strength again and an example of this is
say Ryan Pinker and finally let's give
employee title type of this is string an
example of this is its market right so
what did I do over here well let's let's
recap real quick so if we define our
first resource which is the employees
resource under this resource we define
our first method the get method and form
and again what we want to do is we want
to define parameters and responses
because that's what makes a basic API at
the request and response cycles so the
request cycles we have two parameters we
have the query parameter both of them
being query parameters the first
parameter allows you to specify how many
employees you want returned and over
here the way we define it is 1 of course
defining the name and what it is which
is the Quai but also then whenever you
want to describe something in terms of
like what the type of parameter you're
the type of object it is in general and
with the examples as well as some
constraints you use this the schema
object over here so let me use schema
and under this we define the type of
some more details about the parameters
in terms of like the data what is the
datum what is the data structure what is
what type of data it is what is the
minimum and maximum as well as with an
example
same exact real logic for the second
query parameter finally when we go ahead
and define our responses we're defining
our first successful response which is
200 and then we have the introduction of
a new object you know
or knowledge is content and content
essentially this is where the content
negotiation aspect if it can come into
the picture you go in from instead of
defining the responses directly you
actually go in and define first first of
all the type of content you're going to
be getting back so here for example we
were defining application slash JSON to
be the type of content and under this
again remember schema is where you go
ahead and define like the type of
information are going to be getting back
so we have the schema information over
here
we're calling this an array and under
this we have the various properties
which you use to then go ahead and
define what that response object is you
can always like this is just our first
endpoint and so let's go ahead and
define well this our first method so
let's go ahead and define our post
method now and of course if you go over
here you can notice that whatever we
just put in this information has been
rendered now if you add more content
over here so we have application JSON we
can actually go ahead and put
application in slash XML you'll actually
see that being rendered so I can
actually put real quick as well so we'll
do that as you move forward I'll give
you I'll show you an example when we go
into the next phase of the design so
let's now go ahead and define our post
operation so again be careful about the
indentation is awareness so this is
where I define a post and no matter and
under post I'm gonna be again describing
as much as I can so
mmm-hmm so so this is where again so
this is a big change as well from 2.0
3.0 so when you're doing a post in 2.0
you had the body parameter 3.0 is God
done away with the body parameters and
what we have now is something called
request body this is just me this just
makes it much more easier to define
objects and we've also added I believe
the file upload on the the form data
under the request body object you know I
know we have Ron on call if I say
anything wrong let me know Ron it was
the developer evangelist for swagger and
open API so yeah so this is so we're
gonna be now defining all of our the
parameter image for the post parameter
under the request body object so we then
need to specify that this is a required
entity so we say required true right so
because the post requires that you
actually post something so this is going
to be true and again the same exact
logic or the content negotiation part of
it is you can now have to go and define
what is that content you want to push or
like post to that specific resource so
over here the same thing let's define up
to the application slash JSON let's
define the schema which is defining what
the type of information you want to put
now when we when we post I don't want to
post an array I want to post
specifically just one employee so I'm
gonna just do the post an object so
instead of array I'm gonna say this is
an object and now let's define all the
information that goes in the post right
so same whatever we posted or whatever
information we get back we won't also
post all of that
second my computer screen a stock okay
sorry about that seems to be a little
problem my browser let's give me a
second
yeah perfect so we just defined what is
the content which gets posted and again
I just copy pasted all the information
you get back in a specific in when you
actually make a successful call so the
ID the employee name and the employee
title I'm only saying that you when
you're posting a new employee
information these are some of the things
you need to have which is the ID the
employee name and the employee title and
of course every by default every
operation requires that you also have a
response so this response is in the same
level as the parameters or in this case
the request party which is a parameter
of sorts right and under this I'm gonna
be specifying or 200 response so yes
sorry this I put in a request it should
actually responses yep so yeah so we
just defined our first pet a post method
as well so just a quick summary we this
is a very simple API lets me show the
split view all as if now what we did is
we define a first get operation under
the employee resource we define the
parameters that go both of them are
query parameters and we define what the
successful response is when we actually
get this information and then we're also
defining a post method on under this
resource where you can post information
about a new employee in the system so
I'm defining the ID the name of the
employee in the title of the employer
and responses which I am in defining
under this is 200 is is just a basic
success to a successful response India
in though in the real world of course we
recommend defining as many whatever
those responses your API supposed to get
so here and in this example I'm only
defining 200 responses ideally what you
should be doing is defining even like
the other responses like the for
hundreds or the 500 which are APR
potentially Gibbs so let me save this
and now let's go in and define our next
method I saw your next resource which
was which is gonna be a path parameter
right so here I want to say that I want
to get information about a specific
employee within the company so here I'm
gonna define get let's see if everything
is in terms of like the structure here
right and over here let's change
information about specific employee and
over here what I'm saying is now if say
for example someone puts in the ID in in
their request if this I have someone
specifies the ID of an employee they
should be getting information about that
employees about that specific employee
from the from the API so I'm gonna be
specifying for this a pad parameter the
name of the parameter is called ID
required yes we pass parameters like
request bodies need to be need to be set
to true from the required perspective
because again you need to specify this
in order to get any sort of information
we have to define what the specific path
parameter so that's where the schema
comes in so you define the type of this
type of scheme is
the you say specifically that this is
the ID of the employee actually that's
we should say that over here and then
let's give an example as well before of
course you're gonna be getting an error
because you need to have responses as
well so let's say that on a successful
response you're only defining 200 s in
this example let's give a description of
the success and also as always define
the content right and I'm gonna be
exactly defining exactly all this
specific information same exact content
which on which we get right so we define
it to be application JSON and then we
defined specifically the schema there
you go so we just defined our path
parameter over here which was the
employee slash ID which is where you
actually can specify specifically which
employees information want to get and
use put in your request you put in the
ID of the employee and you will be
getting this is the ID of the employee
and you will be getting all of the
exactly if you see the example model
over here you'll be getting all of this
information so now I want to quickly
touch upon if you look at this API you
will notice that there's a lot of
reusable components which we added
specifically all of the responses can be
reused multiple times across the right
there's also specifically if you look at
the post prime post method
under the post operation in the request
party you're essentially presenting back
the same information you might be
getting back on the secona on a get
operation under the get operation so
what you can actually do is define the
components section where you can
actually have all of this reusable
components defined in a singular section
that can be referenced across multiple
operations or resources within the API
so I'm gonna save this API I'm gonna
actually create a new app add a new
version to this API so let's call this
2.0 but then swagger hop saga has an
internal versioning system so you can
actually add multiple versions of the
same
and so I've added a new version you can
toggle between one and two at any given
point when I'm gonna be making my edits
to the new version so just like make it
more I would say it's simple to
understand and make sure all of the
reusable components are defined in a
senior section so let's define let's see
what are the common things we can define
the first thing as soon as you based on
what we just said and you know as soon
as you start looking at this API
specification one thing you'll notice is
quickly you can actually define all of
this the information like the ID the
employee name and the employee tell the
response objects as a common model which
is which is what you we will be doing
now so let's go in schemas and so we're
defining this was instructor 2.0 this is
called definitions the definitions model
has been done with and it's been changed
to components and now under components
you have to define the schemas right so
remember schemas is what what OS the
users like define specifically the data
type in the examples and some
information on like whatever the model
is so over here I'm gonna be defining a
new model call employee write
description over here is gonna be
containing employee info and essentially
what I'm going to be doing is I'm gonna
be defining all of this information
right so the properties and everything
this for an employee I'm gonna be
defining that over here make sure this
is in Yama's and make sure all the
indentations are right and notice that
as soon as I type this it's been
rendered on the right so I've just
defined my first employee model and what
I can do now is go in over here and this
is our first information so let me go in
right over here and instead of having
the properties go in
the dollar rough the syntax for this so
if you do a dollar breath right and now
what we're doing is now instead of
defining all of those objects in the in
the operation itself I'm going to be
referencing this specific component so
it's gonna be this is a syntax you're
first gonna be pointing to the specific
API which is done by the hatch and then
it's going to go Traverse who the
component section and under components
they're schemas right and under schemas
there's employee so I'm now referencing
this specific component over here
schemas so now let's go over here and
see where else we can reference this
there we go we can also reference the
specific component in the post method as
well so let's do that the same exact
sense X I'm just gonna copy paste this
and again we can see all of this
information over here and and one of the
things we can actually show off over
here is also the content negotiation
part of it so now I can actually define
application say slash XML and as
copy/paste the same exact and if you go
over here
you can actually select application XML
application JSON and you can see how the
response object would be so response
party would be saying it's changing
based on the type of responses you want
back so I can click on save
and you can do the same exact thing over
here is you can in your post is you can
just change this to XML and so you can
go into the post and you can select what
type of response bar even one no let's
let's actually now go in and if you if I
look at the responses in my first
operation which is the ghetto operation
for an array notice that this is
actually asking for an array right and
so what I can do actually is in my
components itself let's define a new
section called employees
this isn't plural and this is where I
can actually let I'm defining um an
array of employees right so in my
description you can call this an array
of employee info okay I'm gonna define
this to be type array and then my items
in this is going to essentially be all
of the information under the employee
model so you can actually reference
under components as well another
component so so under my employees array
the plural I am actually referencing
this specific I'm saying all the items
in that array is gonna be having this
all of these properties so the ID the
employee name and the employee title so
I'm gonna be clicking on save and now I
can actually go in over here to my first
the first get method right and now in my
responses which is an array of
information about the employees I can
actually just go in and under schema
instead of all of this information all I
do is type ref and opponents slash
schemas slash employees second right so
now you'll get all this we're now
referencing the specific employees which
is essentially an array of all of these
all of the information in the employee
model so you this is where you can
actually be very creative and make sure
that your API is is defined and in the
most simplistic of ways but also in the
way in which like all future definitions
or for all future iterations of this API
can be done in a much more quicker
fashion so now when your other
developers come in and add more updates
this APR new endpoints new methods they
don't have to constantly keep real
dating adding new information they can
just keep referencing the components
part of it so the one thing so this
really is so we've done a lot behind I
know we were short of time so you know
we've gone from actually going in and
defining say specific we've done we've
defined to specific resources one is of
course the employees resource where we
go in and we defined two set of
parameters both of which are query
parameters and we've shown you how you
can actually go in and do and actually
specify different information about
these parameters under the schema
section and the schema section is again
the same how the OAS v-point know what
the OAS 3.0 uses to define information
about any request or response party
right so we've done that we've shown you
how you can actually define the 200
response she let me show it this is in
into 1.0
right so you can actually define the 200
response again we also showed you the
post method and under the under the post
method we showed you a new object called
request body which is new to OS 3.0 you
can define what you want to post and
finally of course even we showed you the
path parameter which is how you can
actually get information about a
specific entity in this case a specific
employee then finally in our version 2.0
of this API we actually made this API a
little smaller but a little more elegant
for future iterations by defining all of
our common information under reusable
sections called components you can also
be more creative for example you can
define your parameters as well under the
components section you can end for
referencing you can also for example
define your responses as well under
components but in this example I'm
keeping it short by just defining just
these common models the other big
feature which I want to quickly touch
upon is how so I in swagger home you can
actually take an existing API in 2.0 and
convert that to 3.0 so I have over here
say an existing HR API which is defined
in 2.0 which is exactly essentially the
same thing which I just showed but in
2.0 you can actually go in over here and
if you click on the top right corner you
can actually convert this to open API
3.0 so swagger hub is one of the first
tools to actually not just support open
e pets like 3.0 in terms of designing
and documentation but also conversion so
once you click on conversion you know
you can you have this option to convert
so I'm going to click on convert and
update and you will see that all of this
API is now converted to the open e
inspector you point oh and of course
you'll have to go in and potentially add
a little more definitions or make it
more concrete like in terms of
descriptions but for the most part this
is our conversion was very seamless and
works almost instantaneously
so that brings us to the end of our demo
I know we have no we have about 10 more
minutes for Q&A five to ten more minutes
but these are just the resources which
you can use one thing I do want to bring
the point out is that we have a very
very concrete documentation portal on
swagger area where we've documented not
just the usage of the open API of the
swagger or open source tooling but also
the but also open API spec 3.0 and this
is I think the only comprehensive one of
the few only comprehensive documentation
that exists for the open API is that we
point O so please do check it out shout
out to our documentation team until
who've done this who done a great job in
documenting the open e cares like 3.0
soonest it came up oh yeah if you if
you're interested in learning more
please feel free to use that resource
and swagger hub they're always there we
have our resources we have an active
blog where we continue to support the
latest and greatest in technology so
hand it over to Ryan for like questions
thanks so much we did receive a ton of
questions during today's webinar and we
did our best to get to as many of them
as we could we a for anyone the Mary
we'll just cover here or didn't get to
in chat we'll do our best default with
everyone to get your questions answered
one of the questions that come through
with someone who seems to be just
getting started they want to know I'm
when we recommend starting with three
dotto or made sense and maybe start out
with gyro and then move to three doe
things should be probably pretty
straightforward answer but figure thing
up yeah I mean I think that's a very
subjective question as of not like 3.0
is great for my buddy it has it adds a
lot of rich expressive powers for
actually defining an API that that makes
it really great but again one thing is
of course like if you really want that
concrete tooling as well like 2.0 has
been and has been an established
framework which has a lot of tooling
built around it right and so a lot of
swagger open-source flowing as well
which has now transitioned into 3.0 so
it really depends on which stage of the
lifecycle you're in I would
say that you know 3.0 is just great
lakes just it's to describe any pn them
in probably the best expressive way
possible but again if you're looking for
more tooling to like fully utilize the
power of 3.0 then a lot of tools are
still coming out to like you know
implement in the opening has my dream
you know so that's just my
recommendation defining the api opening
aspect we point out but if you also want
to take this in excel and harness some
of your open source as well as
commercial tooling out there to like
really take this to the next level you
know maybe we might hopefully we will be
seeing more much more to like to come
out and like support this one thank you
and can you put different content types
in one response that you're defining yes
you can you can specify it like
application json xml even images i
believe in different responses as well
as request bodies so yeah you can
definitely do that which is what we also
build this in the demo as well so we
define application JSON we also did in
the file XML so this is one of the new
features which has been added to okay
now can i define some object like a
class and further user as a reference
[Music]
that I know is Ron on Ron's on the lines
of I don't really know you may not be
able to get to jump in on that one we
have to go back to that one
the other question we had was around
mechanisms to verify that uh OS 3 data
of specification is actually up-to-date
I know that's something that you know
we've validate it'll validate within
your spat correct yes so with swagger
hub automatically validates your API to
make sure that it's compliant with the
open API standards right so we whether
it's 3.0 or 2.0 you know you'll always
get like that error validation swagger
poppins also actually work if you're
actually actively working to like
release our style validator as well
specifically for the opening I expect we
point oh so within your organization's
say for example you have specific styles
or guidelines which you want your API to
follow then or like your designed to
follow then you can have that specified
in our style guide as well and that's
something we're actively working and you
did show this quickly at the end there
but someone was asking if they have two
of those specs what's the best way of
kind of get started on converting those
to 3.0 so I think if you're using
swagger up today we do have the ability
to do that and you can convert your
specification over we did get a lot of
questions as well about importing
existing swagger files into swagger hub
if you aren't using a platform like
swagger hub on your using to do a spec I
mean I think porn things are using some
of the takeaways from today's sessions
then maybe have to go back and
reconfigure your existing spider
definition I'm I don't have anything
else to add to that one of the cool
things about the conversion is now
instead of like going line by line in
your existing swagger 2.0 spikes and
like converting each and every line or
like seeing if you're it's compliant
especially if it's like a long API which
has like over 500 lines which is a lot
of API sand in the ecosystem as of now
you don't have to do that manually you
can actually import that directly to
starter home so we have an import
capability within slogra home where you
can just import an existing API this is
a 2.0 and then convert it to 3.0 using
our autocut our conversion feature
awesome we did get a lot of questions
around different tooling and we'll have
support for oai 3 dot
it is important to point out that you
know here's part of the swagger team we
are actively involved in the development
of the new spec and certainly they focus
on the tools but we won't necessarily
have insight into some of the other
tools that might be out there that are
beyond the initial swagger tooling um if
you do want to learn but the latest
open-source tools that support that we
do have some information on our swagger
bio website and there was a lot of
specific questions around the square Co
gen tool I did check with the team and
they will be releasing the first release
candidates before the end of October to
get your feedback and then I would
expect you'll see that within swagger
hub hopefully by the end of this year
let's see if we had a couple different
questions uh yes so we had one there was
a couple questions that are coming in
and folks are asking us to go back to
some of their questions so you may just
need to put them in we are just throw up
time but if you are asking us to revisit
your questions I'm sorry if I didn't
miss them we will get our bet do our
best to get back to those let's see if
we have time for a couple more someone's
asking around for the use of the links
section for documentation I know you
touched on links a little bit but maybe
it's all from a documentation standpoint
um the use of those in three oh yeah
definitely so that's one of the things I
highlighted initially is that that's
that's something we're not planning on
like taking a deep dive in our upcoming
webinars linking is something which you
know it's so it's a very touchy topic
because you know it's not directly
hypermedia but it also helps in some
high-level way so that's something we
definitely want to touch upon in our
upcoming webinars in this webinar IV we
didn't want to touch on it just because
it was it felt like a more advanced
topic but if you're very interested in
like learning about in a linking please
feel free to go to swagger bio slash
talks you'll see the specification
documentation and right there on the
left we will see the linking section
link sections where you can learn more
about how links work and OS 3.0 and
someone was asking it looks like it's
the first time seeing the swagger hub
platform
can close on this question and I know we
did have we're still seeing questions
come through so we are trying to take
them out this weekend and we will do our
best to answer these questions in the
follow-up blog post or made a video or
in another webinar so thank you for
funders to be putting your questions but
specifically you know why did we show
swagger hub maybe you know they're
usually using the swagger tooling today
and why would they want to use Swire hub
over some of the swagger editor I what
people using the editor of the UI today
yeah that's a great question so you know
the the open source tools are great for
like doing specific job functions like
for example the swagger editor is like
really great for like going about
designing concrete awesome api's both in
OS 3.0 as well as swagger you have the
swagger UI which is a section which is a
another tool to like generate
documentation you have the code gent
like generate code and then of course
you have to go in and build your own
infrastructure like host all of this
documentation as well as provide the
right access control specifically to
different API is you know based on
whether it's a private model or a
partner model or even internal model a
complex model what swagger hub does is
essentially takes the best of all of
these open source tools adds another
layer of features as well as removes all
of this infrastructure complexity of
hosting and generation of code as well
as documentation and essentially allows
you to go from planning all the way to
documentation as well as generating code
and the quickest and easiest way
possible the icing on the cake is
collaboration so we we know that API is
especially API is no:1 it's well ats
building api is a collaborative process
you know as we mentioned before like it
goes from architects developers testers
deployed devops
documentation writers all their
different job functions all and all of
these people have to work together to
like build a great API and it starts
from the EPS design and so swagger hub
offers a very collaborative tool to like
to essentially allow you to deployed and
deliver great grade ApS in the quickest
way possible while also ensuring quality
near API is by standardization of design
across your rigorous API is for your
teams so that really isn't a nutshell
why why what what's the power of swagger
apart from you know all of the regularly
bringing together the open source tools
as well as auto-generating and hosting
the documentation
often thank you so much unfortunately
our a little overtime here guys we are
gonna have to wrap up I do still see
questions coming in from Ronan William
Peter sorry we weren't able to get to
all of the questions there were some
questions that came in that we do need
some more time to meet with the team to
get some insight on so we will do our
best to answer all those we appreciate
you taking time out of your schedule
today do feel free to send any feedback
on today's session or any other further
questions and as I said we'll do our
best to get back to it
I'd like to thank Asia for the great
introduction to OS 3.0 and thanks again
for everyone who tuned in and best of
luck billing API is with the new spec so